[🏡][readme]&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Steering 🔜][upcoming-chapter]

# Chapter 1. Traction

Riding a motorcycle is really an exercise in traction management. Nearly every skill discussed here
is to maximize available traction and use the limited amounts available on motorcycle safety.

So what is traction, and how does it work? Man things affect traction; some are obvious, many are
not.

## Tires

Tires are the most critical part of the bike because they provide the friction. They generate
friction by complying with the surface of the road to provide a "contact patch." A _contact patch_
occurs when the bottom of a tire flattens as it contacts the road, forming a somewhat elliptical
pattern. Larger and softer tires provide a larger contact patch and greater friction. The rubber on
a tire also conforms to the small peaks and valleys of the road's surface, creating a series of
microscopic interlocking "teeth" that hold the bike to the road.

### Pressure

Tire pressure determines how much the tire will flatten out as it contacts the road. Wide,
flexible construction tires with low air pressure generate a bigger contact patch and greater
friction than narrow, stiff tires with high air pressure. In some competitions, like trials and drag
racing, tires are inflated to very low pressures to maximize the size of the contact patch and
traction. These only work because there are no high-speed turns involved that require stiffer
sidewalls.

**Tire pressure is a compromise.** Less than stock and your weight causes the tire to deflect more,
giving you a bigger contact patch. You get more traction but less longevity. More than stock causes
a smaller contact patch and gives you better tire mileage, at the cost of some potential traction.
Of course, at either extreme the tire can become dangerous so **always know what your tire pressure
should be** and keep it within a few pounds of the recommended range. Tire technology is always
changing so check with the manufacturer of your specific tires to get the current best practices for
pressure.

> Accurate tire gauges are important. You can always ask tire vendors at races to check them against
> their regularly calibrated ones.

The problem with low-pressure tires is that the load capacity is reduced, and the internal friction
is increased, generating heat. This causes the tire temperature to rise, sometimes to dangerous
levels. Road racers use small increases in tire pressure, as little as a half pound at a time, to
adjust the tire temperature. For street riding, _it is very important to not stray too far from the
recommended tire pressures_ as they have been designed tovide the correct amount of contact patch
and flexing at a given load pressure.

### Temperature

### Compound

### Age

### Size

### Profile

### Tread

## Road and Weather Conditions

## Suspension

## Traction Pie

## Decelerating

## Cornering

## Accelerating

## Lean Angle

## Traction Management


[🏡][readme]&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Steering 🔜][upcoming-chapter]

[readme]: README.md
[upcoming-chapter]: ch02-steering.md
